bkontur: argument for promotion to rank2 (#171)
polkadot-fellows/Evaluations: evidence/bkontur/0005-bkontur-2025-promotion-rank2.md

# Argument-0005: Promotion to Rank II

|                 |                                 |
| --------------- |---------------------------------|
| **Report Date** | Date of submission (2025/06/27) |
| **Submitted by**| Branislav Kontur                |

## Member details

- Matrix username: @branislav_kontur:parity.io
- Polkadot address: 1HFq3DbX4tqanTLAx2CAToWnHXg6LRLMzSD4JzYCzCQpw5E
- Current rank: 1
- Date of initial induction: 2024/05/03
- Date of last report: 2025/05/16
- Area(s) of Expertise/Interest: `Bridges, XCM, System Parachains, governance, benchmarking, testing, integration`

## Reporting period

- Start date: 2024/05/03
- End date: 2025/06/27

## Argument

> I believe I have demonstrated both the technical depth and the collaborative maturity expected of a Rank II Fellow. My work consistently aligns with the Polkadot Fellowship’s core mission: ensuring the protocol's long-term safety and resilience while enabling its evolution. Below is a summary of my contributions across the most relevant domains, based on my previous retention arguments and ongoing work.

Author: ```suggestion
I believe I have demonstrated both the technical depth and the collaborative maturity expected of a Proficient member. My work consistently aligns with the Polkadot Fellowship’s core mission: ensuring the protocol's long-term safety and resilience while enabling its evolution. Below is a summary of my contributions across the most relevant domains, based on my previous retention arguments and ongoing work.
```

> I believe I have demonstrated both the technical depth and the collaborative maturity expected of a Rank II Fellow. My work consistently aligns with the Polkadot Fellowship’s core mission: ensuring the protocol's long-term safety and resilience while enabling its evolution. Below is a summary of my contributions across the most relevant domains, based on my previous retention arguments and ongoing work.

Author: Fixed by: https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/Evaluations/pull/171/commits/3a97961e9cee3a1c0f6c6e4dbea049ca50584dfa

### Bridges

Over the last several quarters, I have been focusing on the **permissionless lanes** feature for Substrate-to-Substrate bridges. I authored and/or drove forward several key PRs ([\[1\]](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/pull/4949), [\[2\]](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/pull/5649), [\[3\]](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/pull/6231), [\[4\]](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/pull/6675), [\[5\]](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/pull/8324), [\[6\]](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/pull/8326), [\[7\]](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/pull/8368)), and initiated a [design document](https://hackmd.io/@bkontur/HyyuHlzAA) and deployment strategy for this feature on **AssetHub**, as part of the broader Polkadot/Kusama bridging vision.

> 

Author: Fixed by: https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/Evaluations/pull/171/commits/92ffeadaf6702761e016d36ed963b0c80bc8a2fe

- Helped others complete stable SDK bumps (e.g., `stable2409`, `stable2412`, `stable2503`), resolving blocking issues along the way,
- Identified and fixed problems with review bots: https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/issues/743

Beyond individual patches, I continue working on improving CI stability and contribute to enhancements. I also remain active as a PR reviewer.

### Reflections and Motivation

I proactively identify, create, and resolve issues across both the SDK and Fellows ecosystems. This includes contributing solutions to problems reported by external teams (e.g., Integritee, Encointer), and creating multiple mentoring tasks and "good first issues" to help onboard new contributors. My role at Parity has naturally evolved into one of **mentorship and delegation** - guiding contributors both inside and outside the organization, reviewing PRs across domains, and supporting upstream efforts in bridges, governance, and XCM.
I am ready to take on the **greater responsibility** associated with Rank II: participating in technical decision-making, voting on promotions, and helping uphold the safety and direction of the Polkadot protocol.

> 

Reviewer: Delete "voting on promotions" because Rank II can't vote on promotions. Only Rank III and above can.

> I am ready to take on the **greater responsibility** associated with Rank II: participating in technical decision-making, voting on promotions, and helping uphold the safety and direction of the Polkadot protocol.

Author: ```suggestion
I am ready to take on the **greater responsibility** associated with Rank II: participating in technical decision-making and helping uphold the safety and direction of the Polkadot protocol.
```
